---
layout: probe
title: Spitzer
target: [saturn]
color: '#77ccc9'
attract: saturn_rings.jpg
image: cassini.svg
---

Cassini–Huygens is an unmanned spacecraft sent to the planet Saturn. It is a flagship-class NASA-ESA-ASI
robotic spacecraft sent to the Saturn system. It has studied the planet and its many natural satellites
since arriving there in 2004, also observing Jupiter, the heliosphere, and testing the theory of relativity.

Sixteen European countries and the United States make up the team responsible for designing, building,
flying and collecting data from the Cassini orbiter and Huygens probe. The mission is managed by NASA’s
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the United States, where the orbiter was assembled. Huygens was developed
by the European Space Research and Technology Centre. The Centre's prime contractor, Aérospatiale of
France (now Thales Alenia Space), assembled the probe with equipment and instruments supplied by many
European countries (Huygens' batteries and two scientific instruments by the United States).
The Italian Space Agency (ASI) provided the Cassini orbiter's high-gain radio antenna, with the
incorporation of a low-gain antenna (that ensure telecommunications with the Earth for the entire
duration of the mission), a compact and lightweight radar, which also uses the high-gain antenna and
serves as a synthetic aperture radar, a radar altimeter, a radiometer, the radio science subsystem (RSS),
the visible channel portion VIMS-V of VIMS spectrometer (the VIMS-IR counterpart was provided by NASA, as
well as Main Electronic Assembly, which includes electronic subassemblies provided by CNES of France.
